On May 6th, just a few short months ago, the Bethel family had the pleasure of being introduced to you.
The 156th class of Gilead, and it was heartwarming for us to hear each of you share with us sincere expressions of gratitude for the opportunity to come to Gilead.
It's always refreshing, isn't it, to hear someone say thank you?
Yet the Bible very frankly describes a number who displayed a callous spirit of ingratitude.
For most of these of course was Jehovah's chief adversary.
The Watchtower 2005, the October 15th issue says, instead of being grateful, Satan became puffed up with pride and began to despise God's way of ruling.
And then there's our first parents, Adam and Eve.
Similarly, the Watchtower of 2000, the November 15th issue said, most individuals flatly refused to serve God, their spirit is one of, in gratitude.
Satan enticed Adam and Eve into such a way of thinking, end of quote.
Why did these perfect individuals make the decisions they did? They failed to cultivate a grateful heart.
The Bible encourages us to do that. In 1 Thessalonians 5-18, give thanks for everything that is God's will for you.
Colossians 3-15, show yourselves thankful.
Psalm 92-1, it is good to give thanks to Jehovah.
And to cultivate refers to the preparation of the soil before planting and then nurturing the resulting crop.
Interestingly, the nation of Israel was told to leave their fields follow, uncultivated every seven years, to allow the soil to regenerate to regain its vitality.
But the soil of our heart is very different, isn't it? It's always fertile. Something is always growing there. It must never lie, follow.
If we complacently allow gratitude to wither, what will grow in the untended soil of our heart?
Weeds of selfish ingratitude. That's what happened to Israel as a nation despite the warning Moses gave to them.
In Deuteronomy chapter 6 and in chapter 8, Moses said, when Jehovah your God brings you into the land he swore to your forefathers, when you have eaten and become satisfied and have an abundance of everything, be careful not to forget Jehovah your God.
Jehovah knew they had a tendency, a disposition to take for granted what he had given to them, to forget what he had done for them despite his efforts to remind them.
Sadly, as Psalm 106-13-21 says, they quickly forgot what he did, they forgot God their Savior.
Now it's easy for us today to look back and shake our heads and disapprove of the whole of Israel was so ungrateful.
But isn't it true we have the same inclination sometimes to forget what Jehovah has done for us, to take for granted what he has done for us?
So we begin to see that there's this close relationship, this interaction between gratitude and memory.
To cultivate a grateful heart we do that by remembering, reflecting, recalling, recounting with appreciation what Jehovah has done for us.
Now certainly that includes what is done for us as a people collectively, but your gratitude is something very personal between you and your father.
What has Jehovah done for you?
Now the Psalmist recognized the need to cultivate this type of gratitude.
Look please at Psalm 143 and verse number 5.
The Psalmist says, I remember the days of old.
I meditate on all your activity. I eagerly ponder over the work of your hands.
Well we follow that good example by regularly taking the time to reflect on the many things for which we're grateful, even physically listing them.
That's not a meaningless simplistic exercise as we see our lists grow longer and longer, what happens?
Well a seed is planted, appreciation takes root, gratitude flourishes.
On June 25th of this year our dear sister, Julia Globa, was convicted by a Russian court and sentenced to a suspended prison sentence.
As she writes, every evening I make a list of things that I experience that day, blessings.
Then I take time to thank Jehovah for these expressions of his love.
After all, why do we use lists? Isn't it so we don't forget?
We got all kinds of lists, guests list and to-do list and punch list and shopping list.
We've got bucket lists, wish lists.
How do we decide what goes on our list?
Well we do a sort of mental inventory, don't we?
Or we may physically look in the refrigerator, look in our kitchen pantry.
We do an inspection of our kingdom hall.
The shopping won't get done by itself.
The kingdom hall won't get fixed by itself.
Our heart will not become grateful by itself.
We must search the pantry of our personal experiences.
And when we do what we find there, what many obvious things, we're grateful for life.
We're grateful for having a measure of health, for being drawn into Jehovah's organization.
We're grateful for our faithful, a governing body, for our rich spiritual food, our hope for the future,
our original songs. The list can become quite substantial, won't it?
And the longer we linger in this grateful mindset, other less obvious things may find their way on our list.
For instance, are we grateful for God's laws?
You know our youngsters enjoy roller coasters.
And instead of clutching the bar, we often see them with their arms up in the air to increase the thrill of the ride.
Why are they so confident?
Well, they know that they're securely anchored in their seat by reliable safety device, our harness.
What I think you'll agree that our lives in this system are much like roller coasters.
With many unexpected, unanticipated, and disconcerting twists and turns.
But because we're firmly anchored by the reliable standards and direction from God's word,
we feel free to in effect enjoy the ride.
We feel confident that whatever we encounter, Jehovah is going to guide us safely through.
Yes, we're grateful for God's laws.
Now, what about counsel, correction, even discipline?
Are we grateful for that?
Well, it's true Hebrews 12-11 says that no discipline seems for the present to be joyous, but it is painful.
But remember what Psalm 141-5 says.
Should the righteous one strike me?
It would be an act of loyal love.
Should he approve me, it would be like oil on my head, refreshing and curative, which my head would never refuse.
When I was a young teenager, I got into the bad habit of using big words when I would comment at the congregation watchtower study.
I was showing off until my big brother, gently elbowed me.
And without a word, he pointed in his Bible to 1 Corinthians 149.
Now, you remember what that says, right?
It says, unless you use speech easily understood, how will anyone know what is being said?
You will be speaking to the air.
Well, I don't mind telling you that that scriptural counsel stung a little bit.
And like we often do, I found fault with a counselor.
I remember saying to myself, well, you're not a dad, you're just my brother.
But here I am 50 years later, I still remember the counsel.
I'm still trying to apply it.
It's a gift, a counsel, a correction.
Even discipline, we're truly welcome for a well-deserved direction.
As we reflect on the innumerable reasons we have to be thankful,
well, we're moved to respond as the Psalmist did.
Psalm 116-12.
With what will I repay Jehovah for all the good he's done for me?
Of course, our foremost reason, our motive for cultivating a grateful heart,
is to imitate our Father.
Jehovah has a grateful heart.
How do we know?
Well, remember that gratitude is linked to memory.
And Hebrews 6 and verse 10 assures us that Jehovah is not unrighteous so as to forget
your work and the love you showed for his name.
So Jehovah is grateful for your hard work.
He's grateful that you came to Gilead.
He is going to, as a result of his gratitude, reward you in ways that are unimaginable.
To faithful Israelites, he promised in Deuteronomy 282,
all these blessings will come upon you and overtake you because you keep listening to the voice of Jehovah your God.
And to me, this is an intriguing choice of words.
What does it mean to overtake?
The definition?
Catch up with and pass while traveling in the same direction.
So think about what Jehovah is telling us.
Even if a person for some inexplicable reason would try to avoid, to outrun, to evade Jehovah's blessing,
he would not be able.
Jehovah's blessing would always overtake him.
So you can be confident that as you continue to travel in the same direction with Jehovah,
as you'll draw close to him, he in turn is going to draw close to you.
He's going to richly bless you and why?
Because you cultivate a grateful heart.